So, I have talked a lot about OpenAI
over the last couple days and weeks, and
things are not looking any better for
this company that is bleeding far too
much money than the amount of money that
it's actually making. The burn rate of
OpenAI is simply unprecedented. And a
lot of analysts believe that this is a
company that won't survive long if this
burn rate continues. And the downfall of
OpenAI is something that a lot of
enthusiasts would love to see due to the
fact that they're basically
single-handedly responsible for the
current RAM shortage and inflation which
has caused the chain reaction that has
caused a shortage and inflation of other
computing components such as CPU, GPU,
SSDs, you name it. In an attempt to stay
competitive and try to starve the
competition of computing components,
OpenAI made a deal with SKH Highix and
Samsung where they ended up consuming
40% of the world's RAM during the time
of that deal. And that caused the chain
reaction of everyone wanting to hoard
RAM seeing this happen. And that left
consumers in the dust and caused all the
computing electronics and computing
components for consumers to shoot up in
price and for that stuff to become less
of a focus for a lot of these companies
that once upon a time focused on
consumers. And so what's going on with
OpenAI right now? Well, as I've
mentioned in past videos, OpenAI is a
company that's heavily relying on
investments from outside thirdparty
companies in order to support their
endeavors to support the vast amount of
money that is required to build the data
centers, the AI infrastructure as well
as pay for the huge amount of
electricity that is involved in powering
AI. And one of OpenAI's biggest partners
was Microsoft, who have a significant
stake in Open AI, who have relied on
OpenAI heavily for their own AI
endeavors. But it looks like that
relationship is starting to show some
cracks if recent reports are to be
believed. This right here is breaking
news from the Financial Times that
reads, "icrosoft's AI chief just said
they're pursuing true self-sufficiency
and cutting their dependence on open
AI." Here's a screenshot of the
Financial Times article in question. It
reads right here, "Microsoft is pursuing
true self-sufficiency in AI by building
its own powerful models and reducing its
reliance on open AI." According to the
company's AI chief, Mustafa Souleman is
the head of AI at Microsoft and he said,
"We have to develop our own foundation
models which are at the absolute
frontier with gigawatt scale compute and
some of the very best AI training teams
in the world." And apparently things are
shifting when it comes to the business
relationship between Microsoft and
OpenAI with Sullean telling the
Financial Times that the strategic shift
follows a restructuring of its
relationship with the chat GPT maker in
October. Basically, Microsoft is at that
point now where they want to make their
AI in-house as much as possible, much
like Google does it with their Gemini AI
program. And with Google in particular,
they're actually even making their own
chips called TPUs for their AI. And so I
think Microsoft is trying to head in
that direction instead of relying on
Open AI. And I would surmise that it's a
combination of both self-sufficiency
being a better business model in the
long-term future instead of relying on a
third party that might be a wild card.
Combined with the fact that OpenAI as a
business, when you look at their
numbers, it's really just not looking
like great prospects. This follows
Nvidia recently expressing a lack of
confidence in OpenAI when they recently
backed away from a publicly announced up
to $100 billion mega deal between OpenAI
and Nvidia that has been put on ice.
Nvidia instead opted to invest about a
fifth of that, $20 billion. And with
OpenAI needing every billion dollar they
can take in order to support their
endeavors and their ongoing debt and
relationships with other companies and
all the money that is circulating there.
This was a huge blow for the company.
And now to see that Microsoft is
starting to like back away from Open AI,
trying to become more self-sufficient
and potentially leave OpenAI to their
own devices in the mid to long-term
future, that could spell trouble for
Open AI. And the thing is, tensions
between Microsoft and OpenAI have been
building throughout the last year or so.
Back in June of 2025, the following news
made headlines. This is a Windows
Central article whose headline reads,
"Tensions boil as OpenAI executives
reportedly accuse Microsoft of
anti-competitive behavior as partnership
phrase." This is information coming out
from an exclusive report by the Wall
Street Journal, which Windows Central
summarized as tension between the two
companies has seemingly continued to
brew. The chat GPT maker seeks to evolve
into a for-profit venture. However,
Microsoft is seemingly holding back from
giving its thumb of approval as a
transition may weigh heavily on its
interests, including its rights to
OpenAI's intellectual property. OpenAI
is betting on Microsoft's approval to
move forward with its for-profit
transition, which will allow it to go
public and raise money. But Microsoft's
delayed blessing has seemingly placed
some of OpenAI's executives over the
fence, prompting them to accuse the tech
giant of anti-competitive business
practices. Because of how much Microsoft
has invested in OpenAI, they have a lot
of power over OpenAI's decisions. And
OpenAI wants to go public, but doing so
in some areas might not be in the
interest of Microsoft. So Microsoft is
hesitant to allow OpenAI to do so. And
that's caused some friction in their
business partnership and relationship.
And then a few months back in October of
2025, it was reported that a deal was
made behind the scenes, a new definitive
agreement where Microsoft and OpenAI
will now allow the former Microsoft to
independently pursue AGI or in
partnership with third parties. Whereas
before Microsoft was tied to OpenAI,
they recently made a deal that allows
Microsoft to pursue their own ventures
while still being able to partner with
Open AI in ways that Microsoft is
comfortable with, which kind of
culminated in Microsoft coming out and
saying that they want to pursue
self-sufficiency, which raises red flags
for OpenAI, which has become so
dependent on their partnership with
Microsoft. It feels like Microsoft is
ready to jump ship and essentially like
almost start to compete with OpenAI
rather than be like an exclusive partner
with them. What all this means is that
Microsoft has less incentive to support
OpenAI, to invest in OpenAI, and they
will likely want to put more of that
money into their own self-sufficiency
within the AI landscape. While the
partnership between Microsoft and OpenAI
currently still remains active, who
knows if that will stay true for the mid
to long-term future. What this plan for
self-sufficiency means is that Microsoft
is now starting to diversify by backing
competitors to OpenAI like Anthropic and
Mistral AI and plans to launch its own
models this year. And all this comes
amidst reports and analysis highlighting
that OpenAI is still continuing to bleed
way more money than it's actually making
with articles like this one from Will
Lockett, who's an independent journalist
covering global politics, climate
change, and technology. The headline of
this Medium article reads, "OpenAI is in
a far worse position." Talking about a
previous article where he thought OpenAI
had made $20 billion in revenue last
year in 2025. But because he confused
annualized recurring revenue with
annualized recurring revenue, that $20
billion figure ended up being far more
optimistic than the actual reality,
which is that OpenAI's total revenue for
2025 was actually 11.9 billion, which
sounds like a lot of money to the
average Joe, but for a major corporation
working at such high level, especially
working on AI, those are basically
pennies on the dollar. Will Lockett
highlights how multiple analysis have
found that OpenAI's operational costs
will be significantly more than $28
billion in 2025. So even if they had
made $20 billion in revenue, they're
still likely miles away from breaking
even. But again, they didn't actually
make $20 billion in revenue last year,
they actually made 1.9 billion, which is
significantly less. Will locket
continues with OpenAI's costs could be
even higher than previously imagined,
especially as more time passes as more
data centers are built and power
requirements grow. 1.9 gawatt of
computing power is expected by 2025 from
OpenAI. And a single gawatt of AI
capable data centers costs $80 billion
to build. A gigawatt of AI data centers
consumes around $1.3 billion in energy
costs annually. Data centers have a
realistic operational lifespan of 3
years. So logically, the annual cost of
a single gawatt of AI compute power is
almost $28 billion. So OpenAI's 1.9
gawatt of compute will cost around $53
billion annually when you take all these
factors into consideration. So yeah,
when you look at expenses at that level,
the current revenue that OpenAI is
seeing, it's just not going to cut it.
Now, it's worth noting that some of that
cost will be soaked up by the owners and
operators of the data centers, which is
why many AI data center operators are
running at a catastrophic loss, but it
doesn't change the fact that OpenAI's
costs far exceed their revenue potential
right now, which means that this is just
not a viable business. It's just
something where you throw money to burn
in the fire. Matters are made worse for
AI companies by the fact that they've
recently had to commit to paying 100% of
grid upgrade costs and electricity. that
have been pressured to commit to cover
electricity price increases from their
data centers. Anthropic was the most
recent AI company to make this
commitment, but Microsoft did the same
back in January 13th and OpenAI followed
on January 21st and now Enthropic on
February 11th, the same playbook on the
same month. Why is that? Well, that's
because the Trump administration is
preparing a voluntary agreement
requiring AI companies to pay 100% of
new power generation costs. The
companies are announcing these pledges
before the White House event forces them
to. Basically, AI data centers consume
so much power that some of that cost may
be passed on to the consumers, which is
something that can become a political
liability for politicians who are
promising their citizens that their
electricity bills are going to go down
or stay the same. Which is why New York
State senators introduced the bill to
pause data center permits entirely.
Senator Van Holland introduced the
legislation requiring AI companies to
pay for expansion costs. Virginia's new
governor campaigned on making data
centers pay their own way when elected
officials start running on your
electricity bill. You've got maybe 6
months before voluntary becomes
mandatory. Referring to this voluntary
agreement from the Trump administration
requiring companies to pay 100% of the
new power generation costs. It's
voluntary now, but once you start
pissing off the public because of their
increase in electricity bills as a
result of data centers, that's when
politicians start to lose ground. And so
in the self-interest of politicians,
they're enacting legislations to make
sure that AI companies are eating up all
the cost. And AI companies are
predicting that if they don't make their
commitments now, then the current
administration will make the voluntary
agreement that will require AI companies
to pay 100% of new power generation
costs mandatory. And when that happens,
the government gets to control
parameters. Whereas if AI companies kind
of get ahead of it now, then they get to
control the parameters while adhering to
practices that ensure consumers don't
have to pay more for electricity,
compromising politicians ability to like
win over their citizens. It's AI
companies basically going, "Hey, wo
government, there's no need to pass
legislation and make laws that are
mandatory. We'll do it ourselves." And
that way AI companies have some freedom
within that where they can set some
parameters and aren't completely
controlled by government legislation.
But yeah, what that means is that OpenAI
also has to adhere to this commitment in
order to not invoke the wrath of the
government. That's only going to
contribute to their annual expenses. And
right now, based on OpenAI's own
projection, they're apparently set to
lose $14 billion in 2026. As summarized
by Yahoo Finance here, a new report from
the information claims to have seen
internal OpenAI documents. Documents
that essentially highlight potential
performance projections and their
projection is that they'll lose around
$14 billion for 2026, which is set to be
roughly three times worse than early
estimates for 2025. And those kinds of
losses are estimated to persist for a
few more years. Over the 2023 through
end of 2028 period, the report claims
OpenAI expects to lose $44 billion. $44
billion lost in just 5 years before
turning a profit of $14 billion in 2029.
And as if all that wasn't enough,
apparently the report claims that OpenAI
plans to spend an astonishing $200
billion through the end of the decade up
until 2030. 60 to 80% of which will be
spent on training and running AI models.
Now, something else that this Yahoo
Finance article spotlights is how overly
optimistic OpenAI is about its future
prospects. Apparently, OpenAI's internal
forecast predict that the for-profit
part of OpenAI will hit $100 billion in
annual revenues in 2029, up from an
estimated $4 billion in 2025. They claim
that their revenue will go from $4
billion to hundred billion in a mere
four years. Yahoo Finance thinks that
those numbers are getting silly, stating
that, let's put that hundred billion in
revenue into context. In 2025, Nvidia
had revenues of around $130 billion as a
consequence of holding a near total
monopoly over perhaps the largest tech
hardware boom in human history. And
OpenAI is expecting to more or less
match that in about four years. Uh-huh.
says this Yahoo Finance article. Unless
OpenAI knows something we don't, those
internal forecasts seem to be rather
optimistic, to put it lightly. Now, the
information did report that OpenAI's
cash burn is allegedly not as bad as
previously thought, with the company
tearing through a mere $340 million in
the first half of the most recent
financial year, though Yahoo Finance
states how that squares with overall
losses counted in multiple billions
isn't explained. Despite OpenAI's
current optimism, most analysts predict
that if the spending pace continues
without a major new funding round,
analysts warn OpenAI could face a
serious cash shortage as early as 2027,
increasing pressure to raise capital,
restructure costs, or accelerate
monetization. Furthermore, this post
highlights how OpenAI's finances show
how expensive scaling intelligence truly
is and why long-term funding,
partnerships, and sustainable business
models are just as critical as technical
breakthroughs. Which is why the fact
that Nvidia is kind of backing away a
little bit from OpenAI in terms of fully
committing with things like up to a $100
billion deal or Microsoft starting to
kind of become less reliant on Open AI
and starting to fund competitors and
also funding their own AI operations to
be a competitor to open AAI. Why all of
that is extremely bad for OpenAI.
Another kind of entity that AI companies
rely on are banks. And even banks are
starting to show hesitation about
investing at the level that they once
used to on companies like Open AI or
companies like Oracle who are closely
tied to OpenAI and provide essentially
the computing means for OpenAI to
realize their AI infrastructure. A
banker familiar with Oracle's
fundraising said, "We basically tapped
every single project finance bank
possible, but there are only so many
banks. Banks will have to offload that
risk if they want to keep lending." And
this individual hedgi had the following
take when it comes to this matter. Banks
are nervous about their exposure to AI
financing and are looking for ways to
offload risk they have already committed
to. It's this like sunk cost fallacy
thing where they've already invested so
much that they have to stay on this
train but are trying to find ways to
mitigate their risk. Open AI burns $9
billion a year and doesn't expect
profitability until 2029. Nvidia just
backed away from a $100 billion
investment. And most recently, Microsoft
has kind of backed away from their
commitments to Open AI to a pretty
significant degree. The banks see the
risk accumulating, which is why they're
working this hard to get it off their
books. When lenders are this eager to
find someone else to hold the bag, pay
attention to what they're telling you
about their own confidence in the trade.
And beyond that, companies like OpenAI
are losing talent. So, for example, Zoe
Hitzik here recently posted the
following on February 11th, 2026,
talking about how I resigned from OpenAI
on Monday, the same day they started
testing ads in chat GPT. Basically
questioning the moral implications of a
company like OpenAI, having the most
detailed record of private human thought
ever assembled, asking, "Can we trust
them to resist the title forces pushing
them to abuse it?" What's unique about
chat GBT is that it has direct input
from the end user and a lot of that
input reveals a lot about that person's
psychological profile. And so
integrating ads with chat GPT while
potentially exploiting the information
that chat GPT gains from its
interactions with the end users, the
moral implications of how manipulative
that can get because chat GPT can get to
know someone very intimately. That's
where Zoe Hidzig drew the line and said,
"I can't do this. This is like morally
wrong. Stating, I once believed I could
help the people building AI get ahead of
the problems it would create. This week
confirmed my slow realization that
OpenAI seems to have stopped asking the
questions I joined to help answer.
Framing the unique circumstances of
running ads on Chat GPT specifically as
Chat GPT users have generated an archive
of human cander that has no precedent in
part because people believed they were
talking to something that had no
ulterior agenda. And so with that level
of cander, what advertising and chat GPT
does is create a potential for
manipulating users in ways we don't have
the tools to understand, let alone
prevent. So yeah, basically Zoe realized
that when OpenAI doesn't really care
about the ways in which this technology
can be abused as long as it makes them
profit, she was like, I'm out. I can't
be a part of this. And it's not just
OpenAI that's seeing these kinds of
resignations. Anthropic head of
safeguards just quit because the world
is in peril and wants to write poetry or
something. X AI lost 11 people, two of
them co-founders, with one saying
autonomously self-improving AI go live
in 12 months. Oh, and all this comes
right as we discovered AI models are now
building themselves and are sabotaging
their human supervisors without them
knowing. And this is something being
reported on on mass through major news
outlets like Financial Times as well
with this article titled OpenAI's chat
GPT push triggers senior staff exits.
And all the while amidst all of this,
amidst the giant mountain of a hurdle
that OpenAI faces when it comes to their
financial situation and how untenable it
currently is, there's also the fact that
their dominance in the AI scape is, as M
puts it here, crumbling, highlighting a
situation where competitors are catching
up. Gemini, Google's Gemini, recently
surpassed Chat GPT and daily
conversations for the first time ever.
And Anthropics DAU jumped 11% after
their Super Bowl ad. Notably,
Anthropic's ad went viral precisely
because it mocked OpenAI for introducing
ads into AI. And then beyond that, this
post right here aptly highlights all of
the ways in which OpenAI has created
negative PR for itself and all the ways
it is [__] up where the public is
starting to admonish Open AI because
they feel like their feedback isn't
being listened to. As for the ads in
question, I talked about this in a
previous video. these ads from the Super
Bowl basically making fun of the fact
that ads are being introduced to Chat
GPT and the way they have the potential
to interrupt people and abuse Chat GPT's
knowledge of those people in order for
them to be able to like shell out
targeted ads to exploit aspects of what
Chat GPT has learned about that human
psychology. And yeah, Enthropic's
campaign is working because Anthropic
has become the fastest growing software
business of all time as the numbers here
show. Here's another individual
highlighting this trend. A single coding
tool went from $0 to $2.5 billion in 12
months. Chat GPT, the fastest growing
consumer app in history, generated
roughly $1 billion in total revenue
during its first full year of
monetization in 2023. Cloud code did
$2.5 times that. Cloud code being from
Enthropic selling to a fraction of the
audience, developers and engineering
teams only at a fraction of the brand
awareness. Enthropic just seems to be a
lot more well positioned as a business
model than Open AI is. Not to mention
all the bad press that Open AAI is
getting and all of the ways that
Anthropic has straight up like taken pot
shots at OpenAI and has proven to be
incredibly successful in doing so. Going
back to user backlash, a big part of
that had to do with the way OpenAI
killed GPT40.
Chat GPT now is up to like 5 something.
But the reason people were pissed that
40 was retired was because there were
some folks out there who were forming
essentially this kind of like parasocial
relationship with this AI model, a
strong attachment to 4's personality and
relied on it for emotional advice.
OpenAI felt like they created a model
that was far too easy for people to form
an attachment with and trying to prevent
some of the potential like ethical
questions that may come with that. They
retired 40. But because they had already
put out the 40 model and a lot of people
had gotten to like really like this
model and become attached to it, its
retirement, especially I think like
around Valentine's Day, was something
that many people absolutely despised and
turned on OpenAI as a result. So that's
created tons of negative PR with #ke
keep440 trending on social media and
making the rounds and going viral. And
so people who are one supporters of
openai are now like celebrating the fact
that openai is projected to lose $14
billion in 20126 so on and so forth. And
then outside of people who formed
parasocial relationships with chat GPT,
a campaign called Quit GPT is going
viral for other ethical reasons like the
way OpenAI's leadership contributed to
politicians that a lot of people didn't
agree with. the way AI is used in
government enforcement as well as
ethical unease and corporate
accountability. Just a lack of values on
the part of these companies that seem to
be dead set on making as much money as
possible on this technology without
asking questions about its potential
uses of abuse, especially given how
powerful it is. Now, amidst all this, it
is hilarious that OpenAI brings up
ethics itself because they believe it's
unfair and warned US lawmakers that its
Chinese rival Deepseek is using unfair
and increasingly sophisticated methods
to extract results from leading US AI
models to train the next generation of
its breakthrough R1 chatbot. So, let me
get this straight. OpenAI, whose entire
business model revolves around stealing
information from other people in order
to train their AI without permission,
are complaining that their work is being
stolen for the benefit of another
company. Do you see the irony and
hypocrisy in that? Which is why people
have been coming out on social media and
making fun of all of this, saying things
like, "Mommy, someone copied my
plagiarizer 9000. The plagiarizer who
got plagiarized is complaining that they
got plagiarized. You can't make this
up." Even companies like Google are
saying people are copying its AI without
its permission. Much like it scraped
everybody's data without asking to
create its AI in the first place. So
yeah, suffice to say that people are not
sympathetic to these companies
complaints when they themselves engage
in the very same actions that they're
complaining about. People are also
starting to become a lot more aware of
the moral implications behind how
powerful a tool AI is and the way it can
be exploited. Especially when executives
are full-on coming out and saying that
they want to replace workers with
Sulleon, DeepMind co-founder and
Microsoft AI head predicting that most
white collar computer-based tasks will
be fully automated by AI in 12 to 18
months. So jobs like law and accounting
and all of those things, he believes all
of that will be run by AI in 12 to 18
months and that those people will
essentially be out of work. All the
while, government officials like Andrew
Yang warn of middle class shrinkage as a
result of AI. Bernie Sanders labeled it
an economic earthquake and skeptics
highlighted AI's limits like
hallucinations and past overhyped
timelines. And indeed, you look
everywhere right now and you'll find
plenty of stories of just how flawed and
unreliable AI currently is. It is an
impressive technology and when it works
it works but when it doesn't it fails
epically and the over reliance on AI
will mean that when a failure happens
that will domino effect into like
unimaginable consequences. So for
example a scenario like this we just
found out our AI has been making up
analytics data for 3 months and I'm
going to throw up. It completely [__]
over their financial bookings. It reads
right here that we've been using an AI
agent since November to answer
leadership questions about metrics. It
seemed amazing at first with fast
answers, detailed explanations. Everyone
loved it. I just found out it's been
hallucinating numbers this entire time.
Our VP of sales made territory decisions
based on data that didn't exist. Our CFO
showed the board a deck with fake
insights. The AI was just inventing
plausible sounding percentages. I only
caught it by accident when someone asked
me to doublech checkck something. I
started digging and holy [__] it's bad.
This right here highlights the
importance of human oversight. Why? You
can't just rely on AI to do everything
and leave it to be fully autonomous
because it still hallucinates. It's
nowhere near reliable enough for it to
be able to be deployed at this level.
Even if it's right 99% of the time, that
1% can [__] up everything. On a smaller
scale, we have situations like these
where chat GPT erased two years of a
professor's work with one click and
there was no way back. A professor lost
two years of research after disabling
the data consent option in chat GPT
settings. Then we have security concerns
like this one. A code error temporarily
allowed Copilot Chat to expose
confidential emails and files in its
responses. A bug enabled the AI to
include content from protected emails
and files, especially in sent items and
drafts that were safeguarded by
sensitivity labels and DLP policies.
Microsoft has confirmed the issue and is
deploying a fix. And back in December of
2025, Microsoft full-on said that
Windows 11 its AI features do
hallucinate like every other chatbot and
poses security risks to users. And
outside of security risks, people who
have tried to use Windows Code Pilot AI
exclusively for the computing needs has
often led to results where the computer
feels incompetent than if you were to
use it normally and regularly as we do
today with a mouse and keyboard instead
of having AI try to do everything for
you. with AI often not performing tasks
as commanded or with it presenting
misinformation when asked questions.
Like there are times when it works here
and there, but the times that it doesn't
makes it enough of a friction point and
makes the technology unreliable enough
that AI as a technology is, you know,
seeing a lot of skepticism and
understandably so. On a more severe
level, we have situations like this one.
An AI powered surgical tool is facing
backlash after allegedly harming
patients it was designed to treat.
Multiple lawsuits have been filed
against the Trudy navigation system,
alleging that the addition of AI made
the device less safe, not more. On a
less severe level, we have complaints of
using AI in the workplace when it comes
to game development with this article
from October of 2025, highlighting how
EA staff are struggling with management,
urging them to use AI for just about
everything. Sources claim EA's use of AI
tools is creating flawed code and could
be leading to layoffs. And then you have
game companies like Roblox highlighting
this amazing use of AI and the way it
can just automatically generate games.
And then what it ultimately generates is
copyrighted material like this right
here. What they generated is just
expedition 33. Uh this is not brand new,
you know, creative from scratch content.
This is just copying and pasting of
existing content. Like this is straight
up just complete creative bankruptcy.
And so yeah, the general sentiment
surrounding AI right now, seeing how the
technology has time and again proven to
be unreliable or produce quality output
that is far inferior to what humans can
do right now, is that AI solves zero
problems currently that have not been
solved yet. All the results it produces
are worse and less consistent than what
can be achieved by hand. The only
selling point is that it can produce the
results faster. It's literally a slot
machine by definition. And then there
are all of the fears surrounding how the
government wants to exploit AI. So for
example, this Axio's article highlights
how the government and Enthropic have
been in talks to enable the military to
use the AI technology for what they call
all lawful purposes. Now Enthropic made
a stand on ensuring these two areas are
off limits. The mass surveillance of
Americans and fully autonomous weaponry.
The US government, the Pentagon was not
happy with that and threatened Anthropic
with a punishment. Defense Secretary
Pete Hexth is close to cutting business
ties with Enthropic and designating the
AI company a supply chain risk, meaning
anyone who wants to do business with the
US military has to cut ties with the
company, a senior Pentagon official told
Axios. Basically crippling Anthropic as
a business if they don't abide by the
Pentagon's demands that Enthropics AI
presented to the military doesn't have
the restrictions that Enthropic is
proposing due to just ethical concerns.
The way the Pentagon puts it is that the
Department of War's relationship with
Enthropic is being reviewed. Our nation
requires that our partners be willing to
help our war fighters win in any fight.
Ultimately, this is about our troops and
the safety of the American people. But
what they're really saying is, I mean,
this quote right here describes it
aptly. Enthropic won't let us use our
technology for mass surveillance of
American citizens. So, we're designating
them a national security risk, the US
Department of War. I mean, that's pretty
much what happened. But amidst all this,
of course, AI companies are trying to
present themselves under a positive
light, which is why we're seeing reports
that Google, Microsoft, OpenAI,
Anthropic, and Meta are paying
influencers between $400,000 and
$600,000 each to promote AI products on
Instagram and YouTube. when you have to
resort to that to try to convince people
that AI is good and ethical and that the
technology is actually better and
outputs great quality when currently all
it outputs in the current state of
things and in the current exploitative
use of things is slop like that's when
you know these companies are starting to
get desperate and really want to make
sure the adoption of AI technology is as
vast as they wanted so they can make
their money back because they've put too
much money into this AI venture for them
to not make any money off of this and if
that were to happen, then guess what?
That's what we call a bubble bursting.
And whether we're actually headed there
or not, only time will tell. A lot of
people are in the belief that the
current state of AI, the current state
of things, it feels like indications of
some kind of big bubble being on its way
to being burst, but only time will tell.
But as far as OpenAI specifically is
concerned, that is definitely a bubble
that feels like it's about to pop. It
feels like other companies are better
positioned. though even for those
companies there's just an insane amount
of expense that has to happen that I
don't know if it's ultimately
sustainable for the next couple of years
where they need to continuously expend
dozens of billions and not make anywhere
near the revenue that uh they need to
make to build out the infrastructure to
power the technology and those kinds of
recurring costs are so incredibly
expensive and all the while they're
bleeding money and there's a lot of
backlash and there's a lot of like
uncertainty and ethical questions and
all of it getting in the way of this
being a technology that is just
massaccepted and mass adopted. And with
OpenAI specifically, aside from the fact
that their financial position is
extremely poor, they're starting to lose
relationships with companies like
Nvidia. And with Microsoft now kind of
trying to become more autonomous and
less dependent on Open AI. That puts
OpenAI in an even more precarious
position, especially with competition
encroaching and surpassing Open AI in
many ways. So, OpenAI is in serious
trouble. It was before and it continues
to be. And I'll be curious to see if
OpenAI is somehow able to find a way
around this or if this is a company
that, as analysts predict, is doomed to
run out of cash in the notsodistant
future. But again, only time will tell.
In the meantime though, this is kind of
an overview of Open AI as a whole and
the AI landscape in general. I'd love to
hear what your thoughts and opinions are
on the current state of AI and what you
think prospects look like for OpenAI
specifically. Share your thoughts in the
comments below. And to be further
updated on all things gaming news,
reviews, and discussions, stay tuned
right here on Yong. Yeah. I'll see you
guys next time.
Yong.